# Coffee Flavors Analyzer
#### Data Extraction (video demo) https://youtu.be/WYgWJc4UbIY

### **Introduction**:
This exploration data analysis aims to provide valuable insights into La Celia farm coffee data from 2019 onwards. Each year, coffee samples are analyzed by exportation companies and the results are presented in PDF documents. However, these companies and many coffee growers are unaware of how to interpret these results beyond identifying the flavors present in their coffee farm. By developing this software, we aim to help coffee growers gain a deeper understanding of their coffee's quality and characteristics.

With this data analysis project, growers will be able to identify correlations between variables and track defects that may arise in the coffee transformation process, from the manual picking of the seed to its dehydration. This information is essential for coffee growers to improve their farming practices and enhance the quality of their coffee.

Our goal is to provide a tool that is accessible and easy to use, enabling coffee growers to make informed decisions based on the insights generated by this software. By bridging the gap between coffee data analysis and coffee growers, we hope to empower growers to make data-driven decisions that will positively impact the quality of their coffee crops.

### **Data Extraction**:
The first step in developing this data exploration is to extract and organize data from the La Celia coffee farm's PDF documents. You can find an example of this data in the file located in data folder: **sample_of_coffee_data.pdf**.

The data extraction process involves organizing the information from the PDF documents and outputting it as a data.json file, which can then be easily read into a Pandas dataframe.

The **data_extraction.py** file, located in the scripts folder, takes the folder path containing the PDF documents as input and outputs the data.json file. 

```bash
/scripts/data_extraction.py
```
To extract the information, the program uses the PyMuPDF module to read each PDF document and extract the data from specific rectangles defined by their coordinates, represented by:

- bottom left: $(x_0, y_1)$

- top left: $(x_0, y_0)$

- bottom right: $(x_1, y_1)$

- top right: $(x_1, y_0)$

The extracted data is organized as a list of dictionaries for each rectangle, with each dictionary containing specific data.

To run the data extraction program, use the following command in the terminal:

```bash
python scripts/data_extraction.py --path [directory_path]
```
You can also use the --help flag to see additional instructions on how to use the program.

To use the **extraction_coordinates.py** module, which is used to obtain the coordinates and ensure that useful data is extracted, run the following command:

```bash
python scripts/extraction_coordinates.py --path [directory_path]
```
Please refer to the requirements.txt file for the required modules, which can be installed using pip.

By using this data extraction program, we aim to provide a streamlined and efficient way of obtaining important information from the La Celia coffee farm's PDF documents.


### **Data Analysis**:
```bash
notebooks/data_analysis.ipynb
```
This notebook contains the data analysis process, which includes data cleaning, data visualization, and data analysis. The data analysis process is divided into three sections:
The first one is related to the data origin, which is from La Celia coffee farm. The second section is related to the data exploration, which is the process of analyzing the data to find patterns and relationships. The third section is related to the data analysis, which is the process of using the data to answer questions and solve problems. And finally, a conclusions resuming the main insights of the data analysis.